LGAT subtyping update (#153)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/03.methods.md

A molecular subtype of `EWS` was assigned to any tumor with a _EWSR1_ fusion or with a `pathology_diagnosis` of `Ewings Sarcoma`. 

> Any low-grade glioma (LGAT) samples that contained `low-grade glioma/astrocytoma`, `ganglioglioma` or `subependymal giant cell astrocytoma` but not `dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor` in the pathology diagnosis were subtyped based on SNV, fusion and CNV status.

Reviewer: I would expect the abbreviation here to be LGG based on the terminology used. What's the correct terminology here? cc: @jharenza

Reviewer: Where might appropriate citations from https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/issues/790 ([Ryall et al. [1]](https://actaneurocomms.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40478-020-00902-z), [Ryall et al [2]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1535610820301513)) go?

Reviewer 2: These abbreviations are always hard, and I initially used LGAT/HGAT because astrocytomas and gliomas all arise from astrocytes. Though, most of the field uses pLGG and pHGG (pediatric LGG or HGG). So for this, I would suggest using 
`Any low-grade astrocytic tumor (LGAT) that contained...` 

I think we can defer to clinicians (I will ask) whether we should use pLGG or LGAT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Low-grade astrocytic tumors (LGAT) or glialneuronal tumors (GNT) were subtyped based on SNV, fusion and CNV status based on @doi:10.1016/j.ccell.2020.03.011, and as described below.
```

I took out some details

> 1. If a sample contained _NF1_ a somatic mutation, either nonsense or missense, it was subtyped as `LGG, NF1-somatic`.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If a sample contained a _NF1_ somatic mutation, either nonsense or missense, it was subtyped as `LGG, NF1-somatic`.
```

7. If a sample contained SNV or indel in either _KRAS_, _NRAS_, _HRAS_, _MAP2K1_, _MAP2K2_, _MAP2K1_, _ARAF_, _RAF1_, or non-kinase domain of _BRAF_, or if it contained _RAF1_ fusion, or _BRAF_ fusion that was not `KIAA1549--BRAF`, it was subtyped as `LGG, other MAPK`.
8. If a sample contained SNV in either _MET_, _KIT_ or _PDGFRA_, or if it contained fusion in _ALK_, _ROS1_, _NTRK1_, _NTRK2_, _NTRK3_ or _PDGFRA_, it was subtyped as `LGG, RTK`.
9. If a sample contained _FGFR1_ p.N546K, p.K656E, p.N577, or p. K687 hotspot mutations, or tyrosine kinase domain tandem duplication [@url:http://hgdownload.soe.ucsc.edu/goldenPath/hg38/database/pfamDesc.txt.gz], or _FGFR1_ or _FGFR2_ fusions, it was subtyped as `LGG, FGFR`.
10. If a sample contained _MYB_ or _MYBL1_ fusion, it was subtyped as `LGG, MYB/MYBL1`.
11. If a sample contained focal CDKN2A and/or CDKN2B  deletion, it was subtyped as `LGG, CDKN2A/B`.

For LGAT tumors that did not have any of the above molecular alterations, if both RNA and DNA samples were available, it was subtyped as `LGG, wildtype`. 
Otherwise, if either RNA or DNA sample was unavailable, it was subtyped as `LGG, To be classified`.

> Lastly, for all subtyped samples, if it contained `desmoplastic infantile`,`desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma`, `desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma` or `glioneuronal` in pathology free text diagnosis, it was recoded as followed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If pathology diagnosis was `Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA)`, the `LGG` portion of molecular subtype was recoded to `SEGA`.

Lastly, for all subtyped samples, if the tumors were glialneuronal in origin, based on `pathology_free_text_diagnosis` entries of `desmoplastic infantile`,`desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma`, `desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma` or `glioneuronal`, each was recoded as follows:
```

SEGA is not a GNT, so I moved this one up

> 1. If pathology diagnosis is `Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma (WHO grade I/II)`, `LGG` was recoded to `GNT` with molecular subtype retained.
> 2. If pathology diagnosis is `Ganglioglioma`, `LGG` was recoded to `LGG,|GNT` with molecular subtype retained.
> 3. If pathology diagnosis is `Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA)`, `LGG` was recoded to `SEGA` with molecular subtype retained.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If pathology diagnosis is `Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma (WHO grade I/II)` or `Ganglioglioma`, the `LGG` portion of the molecular subtype was recoded to `GNT`.
```
